---
layout: posts
title:  "Godot Day 1"
date:   2023-08-08 13:58:16 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

So recently I've been hearing a lot about this open source game engine called Godot. I was curious about it so i decided to start learning it and trying my hand at some game design.

Godot is an open source game engine that has been gaining popularity recently. It was started by Argentine software developers Juan Linietsky and Ariel Manzur prior to its public release in 2014. 

With the recent change to Unity's price model (instituting the 20 cent rule) I've seen lots of developers talking about how Unity has essentially committed seppuku and have started jumping ship to learn other engines. I learned about Godot after seeing a statistic of how unity devs were going to react to the new price model.

The statistic essentially asked how many devs were going to move platforms and to where and the results were as follows:

| % of people | Where they move |
|:------------|:----------------|
| ~30%        | Unreal Engine   |
| ~30%        | Godot           |
| ~10%        | Other           |
| ~30%        | Staying with Unity|

This got me curious about this little open source Engine I'd never heard of but was just the start. After looking up info on Godot the youtube algorithm gods started sending me more info on the topic periodically until I saw this one short that talked about how Godot is looking like the lil' engine that could. The short was of this one developer talking about how Godot reminds him of Blender in that it was a small open source project that largely sucked, but after a while the community grew and improved it until it became one of the industry standards and overall best free tool. 

This got me excited about Godot's future potential and what got me to start trying to develop in Godot. The first thing I did was look up a tutorial as you do when learning a new tool/language.

<div class="responsive-video-container">
    <iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/5V9f3MT86M8" frameborder="0" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

[Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5V9f3MT86M8)


I had alot of fun doing this quick tutorial and I learned a great deal about how Godot works. Godot is super user friendly for all the basic stuff, the node based system is really self explanitory and robust and their scripting language GDScript is very pythonic and easy to learn. It seems theres also C# and C++ options that I'll have to explore later for some projects I want to do that require more optimized processes.

Look forward to seeing more game dev projects using Godot!